Talking about your teammates, what were the key values, attitudes, qualities you've learned of going to NM Soledad High School?
What difference did it make as you look back?
Well, I think that the people that were in A&M Consolidated at the time were a good cross-section of all kinds of people, and to me one of the real strengths that was there was the ability for all different kinds of people to get along together and enjoy each other.
If all of those people could be present today, which ones would you want to thank most?
Well, I think certainly the teachers, the administrators, and the kids at the same time.
I enjoyed them all.
But are there some names?
Special names?
Well, Miss Georgia Bell Landis was one of the teachers.
Les Richardson was the superintendent.
Boots Simmons was the coach.
One of the...
People that I think meant most to me in school was our homeroom teacher and I'm drawing a blank.
But she was also our math teacher and I think I learned more from her than I did any teacher I ever had.
And why can't I think of her name?
Her son was named Charles Orr, Mrs. Orr.
And Mrs. Orr taught me math, I guess, for about three years.
And I always really enjoyed her teaching ability and what she taught me.
Any mischief you can share that you were involved in?
In high school?
Well, we used to cut up in the science class every now and then.
We would run the tubing around and stick it in somebody's pocket and turn the water on and do a few things like that.
But I never got in too much trouble as far as high school was concerned.
For high school age youngsters then, did y'all slip and drink any beer?
I don't ever remember doing that.
I don't ever remember drinking beer until after I graduated from college.
Smoking?
Yeah, it spoke grapevine.
Did you even know the word marijuana?
Didn't have a clue.
Didn't know what it was.
Did you have any wheels?
No.
After I got my license, I could take daddy's car on a date or something.
And I did a little running around from that standpoint, but I never had a car of my own.
Okay, now I think I know the answer to this next question.
These are kind of the routine questions I give to people who grew up somewhere else.
Why did you attend Texas A&M?
Why not somewhere else?
I think money was a big factor.
I really didn't want to stray too far from home either.
I kind of like the idea of being at home, but certainly cost was a factor.
There wasn't any way in the world that Daddy and Mama could send me somewhere else to school, and it really just never occurred to me to go anywhere else.
I never even thought about it.
Did anybody recruit you?
No, not really.
I got recruited, well, that's not quite true.
I got recruited by A&M.
not on a scholarship basis, but to come play football.
And I had watched my brother, and I decided that I was really too good to go out for football.
And so it's a good thing because I wasn't any good.
I wanted to play basketball, but Marty Corot said there wasn't any use in me going out for basketball, and so I didn't.
And I did go out for baseball, but I didn't really care that much about it, so didn't do much with it.
Did you know what your major was going to be when you started off?
I thought I wanted to be a business major.
Ended up with a personnel degree, but I thought all along I wanted to be a business major.
And you lived at home.
Lived at home.
Describe what it was like for you living at home to be in the Corps.
Well, being at home and living in the Corps, you were somewhat of an outcast, a day duck, as they were called.
We had our own unit.
of all Day Ducks, which was at that time mostly made up of marriage students, because a marriage student was really a little bit unique, and that also meant that we had a lot of veterans in that company, and the veterans didn't much want to do anything.
I mean, they'd been through all that, and so there wasn't any need to do anything else.
And so we weren't quite as formal
as the other units were, but we still, of course, had to wear the uniform and do everything else like the rest of them did.
And those were always, we marched in the parades and did all the other stuff that the units did.
But it wasn't quite the same core activity, I really think, because of the veterans rather than the leadership as far as the core was concerned.
So you didn't have to go make up somebody's bed.
You didn't have a sophomore.
No.
And you ate your meals at home?
Yes, I did.
Do you have any idea what that freshman year cost?
Yes, I remember very well.
My fees my first year were $44 for the first semester and I had to go buy my books but my checked A&M was $44.
And I meant to ask a while ago, do you remember what your dad's salary was at any point?
Yeah.
My daddy, because I talked to him one time that I just thought that we ought to have a new car.
And my daddy showed me his check, which was $350, and said, here are the bills we have.
If I had any way I could figure out how we should buy a car out of that, well, he'd be glad to do it.
And that was after 35, 40 years service.
Well, not quite.
That would have been after about 15 or 20 years though.
At A&M.
Yeah.
Oh yes, yes.
Career.
Right.
Those freshman year courses, do any stand out in your memory of
Yeah, several of them do.
I had an English course.
I made a D in English 101, was it 101?
102, I believe it was, which was the first semester, and I made an A in 103, which was a difference in the professors.
I remember biology under Dr. Doak, American history under Dr. Nelson, the military science courses were fun, and I really enjoyed the economic courses.
Oh, I had, I had several, but I can't call any names, but, No, uh-uh.
Describe Dr. Nelson's history.
Well, Dr. Nelson was a very interesting character.
He always had stories to tell.
He always had antidotes and was famous for his pop quizzes.
If anybody didn't show up, then we always had a pop quiz.
And Dr. Nelson would write the questions on the board.
and then light a cigarette, and when the cigarette was out, the quiz was up.
But his class was always a blast to go to other than having a test.
And he was nicknamed Screamin' Al.
Screamin' Al Nelson.
And he, I understand, was quite conservative in his politics.
That would be putting it mildly.
Very conservative.
Describe Dr. Doe.
Dr. Doak was a teacher who would adapt himself to whatever the class was.
Mine was a general science class, and as a result he approached it in a very loose, friendly, funny manner.
I never had one of the more advanced courses with him, but I understand in those courses he became much more serious and much more involved.
But he was a very, very interesting teacher.
He made everything interesting.
And you go through and graduate within four years.
During that freshman year, describe a typical class day.
You got up at what time, did what?
I would, nearly all my classes, I always wanted my classes as early in the morning as possible and nearly,
I recall very few days when I didn't have an eight o'clock class and I would ride to the campus with my daddy and walk to class generally in the academic building or in the shacks.
Herb Thompson was a, when I finally got to the business school, Herb was a great teacher and I enjoyed him very much.
I would go to class and finish my class and then probably go to the Y and then go home with my daddy.
You ate lunch where?
Generally at home.
Would you come back in the afternoon?
Sometimes because I'd have a, occasionally I'd have a class in the afternoon.
If not, I would, I don't know, do something at home or go play something.
to fall in and march to chow like other fish.
Did any upperclassmen ever give you a hard time?
Very much so because the Day Ducks, well, they liked to quiz you and you get to class and they wanted all the stuff of what's my name and what company am I in and all that.
They treated us, the Day Ducks, they liked to ride us pretty hard.
And so it was pretty important that we learned who the people were and could call some of those names.
If you had an unscheduled hour or two on the campus, where did you spend that time?
Oh, generally either at the Y or I would go to the library quite a bit and go through that.
But I expect I spent more time at the Y than any other place.
Did you make some special friends?
That first year?
Yes, certainly so.
A fellow by the name of Jim Dishman in Beaumont, Jerry Lastalick in Dallas, the Gibson brothers from West Texas.
I remember playing against Jimmy Dishman.
He was a Beaumont Royal Purple and I was an Orange Tiger.
Oh really?
Well I talked to Jim Dishman this morning on the phone.
the Graves brothers, all pretty special people.
Do you remember any good bull or pranks or jokes that you as a freshman got involved in?
We got over to Austin for a basketball game one time and nearly got in a fight over there because we probably said the wrong thing to somebody.
I don't know exactly what we said.
Got involved a little bit when they went up and captured the Baylor bear.
They couldn't get the big bear, so they got the little bear and tranquilized it and brought it down here.
And the only trouble is the bear woke up just about the time they got down here.
And I remember the guy driving down the road, swinging the car and trying to swat that bear as that bear was tearing his car apart.
But I got involved in a few scrapes.
Any drown outs or anything like that that you helped with?
Yeah, I got involved with telling a couple of sophomores that they hadn't behaved right and doing some of that stuff.
You mentioned some key faculty members.
Would you share any faculty nicknames that you remember and why they were nicknames and what they were?
Well, there was a guy with the name of Get It Greer.
It was an English teacher and everything he would, said would get it, get it, get it.
And of course, screaming Al Nelson.
Let me think of anybody else.
It was somebody in the... No, I don't, I don't remember.
I had him as a freshman, never counting.
And let's see, there was Judge.
Stewart.
Judge Stewart.
How was he called Judge?
He was a judge.
Oh, oh.
He was an attorney and he was a judge in Bryant.
I had him in class.
But I can't think of any other nickname.
Let's see, we've already talked about the why.
The MSC really doesn't get going until?
1950s, 49 somewhere.
Did you get involved in any MSC?
Yeah I was involved in the camera club over there and I think a couple of other organizations.
I use the the camera club facilities some but there was a little bit of
I won't call it friction, but there was a little bit of disagreement between the Y and the MSC over some things.
And I can't tell you what, I don't remember, but I do remember not being too involved as far as the MSC was concerned.
The, what did you, what did you and other students think about the MSC as a structure?
We thought it was extremely impressive and probably un,
non-typical of A&M, but that it was a very, very lovely facility.
And it was air-conditioned.
Yes, it was when nothing else was.
And did that attract?
Oh, yes.
Everybody thought that air-conditioning was just a wonderful thing.
Do you remember some, while you were an undergraduate, some big guy and hall events?
Yeah, I remember, of course, the Religious Emphasis Week used to be in Guyon Hall.
There were a lot of pretty famous people that came there to entertain.
There was one of the female singers, and I can't think what her name was.
Spike Jones was there.
Kate Smith?
No, it wasn't Kate Smith.
It was one of the opera singers that came and... No, I'm drawing a blank, but Segoia was there.
One of the ones I enjoy as much as any was Fred Waring.
He was there.
Tommy Dorsey was there.
They used to have the big band, Ray Anthony.
The big bands would come in and put on a concert and then play for a dance.
You danced.
As you began to have dates,
Was it local girls or out of town girls?
The only girl I ever had a date with in my life was Lou, other than maybe once or twice.
Had a blind date while I was in A&M.
We ended up being the beauty queen at the University of Texas.
And I had a couple of dates in high school, but other than that, I never had a date with anybody but Lou in my life.
So that you didn't, I've heard about Moose Pots and Beast Buckets and all with the Tessies in and everything.
What were the, as you look back on it, what were the basic attitudes of A&M students in those days?
I think basically still quite conservative.
Most of them, one of the big things about A&M in those days was the fact that when you came to A&M you left everything else behind.
You didn't bring a letterman sweater.
You didn't bring any clothes from home because what you wore was the Aggie uniform and it really didn't make any difference what you're standing or anything else was.
Everybody was the same once you got here.
And were you even aware that there were some of your classmates who may have been rich?
No.
Or poor?
This didn't make any difference.
The big events were at Guyon Hall, Kyle Field, and Aware Field House.
Describe, if you can, a typical...
football day for you.
What did you do during a typical football game, home game day?
Well I used to go down on many occasions and work selling cigars, candies, wait a minute, cigars,
Cigarettes, cigars, chewing gum, and candy.
I knew the guy that had that concession, and I sold stuff in the stadium many a time.
I used to love to go watch the special trains come in and see all the people get off in all the pretty clothes.
So you, in a way, you were unusual on those game days that you didn't have to be part of the routine from the core dorms.
Well, what I'm telling you really is earlier.
Oh, oh, oh.
A typical game day, as far as the games is concerned, is yes, I would march in with the Corps.
And did you and your buddies have dates usually?
Most of the time not, because Lou was in school at TSCW.
And if she didn't come, I didn't have one.
And you all communicated by letter or telephone?
I don't remember many phone calls.
We wrote a lot of letters.
I'm not surprised because phone calls cost a lot of money.
It was a different animal.
In those days.
That's right.
G. Riley White comes in after you graduate.
Right.
Doesn't it?
DeWear Fieldhouse.
Tell me about.
Well DeWear Fieldhouse was a wonderful place.
As a kid I just thought that was the greatest place in the world, going there and watching them play basketball.
NM used to have a tumbling team that would perform at halftime and that was always fun.
And I always thought that it was fun the way the Aggies razzed the other team and the Aggie spirit that showed up in the basketball game.
I always enjoyed the basketball games and I went to every one I could.
Who were, during your days as a college, as a college Jew, who were your favorite athletes?
Well, Johnny DeWitt.
What was McDonald's first name?
Jewel McDowell.
I guess there were some of the football players and the baseball players, Dishman, Lastalick, Bill Munderland, Putter Jarvis, they're all pretty close.
Were you aware of the existence of any secret fraternities?
Never heard of it.
Other than the, I don't remember when the new, there was a,
The story broke about that at some point, and I don't remember when, but when it broke, that was the first I ever heard of it.
Because I think it goes at least back to 1921.
I never heard of it.
Let's see.
The student organizations that you and your contemporaries most respected
other than the Corps, band, RVs, what?
The band, the RVs, the battalion staff, at that point the MSC, what they call them, MSC something, council, the L leaders, the Corps staff, the band was way high.
If you could have just for celebrity status had any position,
what would have been the highest status a student could have had?
I expect president of the student body.
Oh, that more than corps commander?
Probably so, yeah.
Was there any geographic area or any academic major that seemed to have the inside of a student leadership position?
I would say in those days that probably the major was the engineering major, more so than anything else, but I'm not sure of that.
Did y'all have nicknames for the different majors?
No, not particularly.
I don't know that I ever heard that.
What was supposedly the toughest major and the easiest major?
Physical education was supposed to be one of the easier ones.
Electrical engineering and physics were supposed to be, the EE major was supposed to be very tough.
So was the School of Veterinary Medicine.
Did you and your fellow students, did y'all feel that athletes went to class?
No, to some degree, not a hundred percent.
Let's see, you weren't part of Bryan Field.
No.
When you went somewhere out of town, did you ever hitchhike?
Yes.
Describe Aggie Hitchhiking.
Well, hitchhiking had a very strong protocol.
You couldn't go upstream at all.
you had to know where the places were that you could hitchhike, and whoever was doing hitchhiking didn't mean it was his turn, it was just whoever was next.
And I think the thing that impressed me about that as much as any was the protocol that went with it.
Where, if you're going to catch a ride to Dallas, where was the place to go?
If you're going to catch a ride to Dallas,
I believe it was right north of... I believe it was at the main gate.
Yeah, the east gate just to the left or the north of the east gate.
And to Houston was just to the... It was a little bit south of that, about a block or so.
What about if you're going to Austin?
It was out at the edge of barn.
Did you ever have a bad experience Aggie hitchhiking?
No.
I have not yet had anybody.
Now, did you have any that, now that you look back on, were kind of amusing or goofy?
Particularly.
I hitched a ride in a truck one time, and that was kind of fun.
But generally, the people were always very interested in what was going on and very courteous.
And I don't ever remember any problem hitchhiking.
Did you have a car while you were an undergraduate?
No.
What about summer jobs?
Yeah, I used to work for an outfit called the Stanley Equipment Company, and we did refrigeration work and insulation work.
And I guess I did that every summer I was in school.
Went down and did some work on some of the docks at Lake Charles and Galveston, New Orleans, Mobile, Alabama.
The courtroom experiences?
Yeah, we had, as a freshman, I made all the court trips.
Made most of them as a sophomore.
I think I made some every year.
but generally I would try to go north where Lou was so we could meet for that and go to the ball game, and we generally would end up staying with a friend or somebody up there.
I remember a court trip or two to Houston, but Lou never did go to Houston, so I'd just go and go to the game and go home.
Was the group ever treated impolitely?
No.
Any memories you have of a delightful Aggie victory when you were an undergraduate?
And we beat Texas 22 to 21 here in, I guess, 52.
And that was a wonderful victory.
And I remember going to Austin and beating them in basketball one year.
I don't remember which year that was.
I remember we played Oklahoma home and home probably my freshman year.
And Oklahoma came down here and we beat them.
And that was always a lot of fun.
How did you go to Bryan when you were an undergraduate?
How often?
Very seldom.
You know, maybe once every two weeks or so.
If you and your buddies were going to go have a good time on a Friday night or a Saturday night.
Go to the picture show.
Without your dates, where'd you go?
The campus?
Either the campus theater or Guyon Hall.
but not downtown.
Very seldom.
What were the places that were on the edge of being improper for students to go to?
Well, from our standpoint, hard lickers probably fell in that category.
The Avalon Club on the north side of Bryan.
Tell me about that.
I don't know that one.
You don't know that one?
Used to be a big club at the corner of 21 and 6.
called the Avalon Club, and it was considered risky as far as the students were concerned.
Just a big beer joint dance hall.
I don't know what happened to it, but it's not there anymore.
Right, and it wasn't mixed drinks, and it wasn't women of, or it was?
It was beer.
Beer, but not mixed drinks, and it wasn't women of the evening.
Was there any house of ill repute, supposedly, within... Not that I know of.
No, not that I know of.
Did Whiskey Bridge exist yet?
Yes.
Is that what y'all called it?
Yeah, you had to go across the bridge, and what was the lady's name that owned that place?
I don't remember her name, but there was a lady that owned that liquor store, and that was about the closest place you could buy liquor.
And what would have happened at your house if your parents had known you had brought something back?
I don't know.
I'd have had a hard time.
My folks didn't drink at all.
And I just, I don't think that was even an option.
I come from that kind of background too.
Let's see, the president at the time you're a senior was him.
Was that...
Was Dr. Gilchrist gone?
Yeah.
Harrington?
Probably was Harrington.
Yes, I knew him very well.
Describe him personally.
Very friendly, very jovial, always glad-handing the students and always involved in a lot of things, but Tom was always very, very friendly and always seemed to be very helpful.
You never had a chemistry class from here?
No.
Let's see, we've already done World War II.